Create rule S6366: Use conditional suspension to resume current coroutine (#477)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6366/cfamily/rule.adoc

> One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied, e.g. the action is finished or an event was triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied.
```
The examples are quite vague/abstract and might distract readers. Alternatively, using slightly more concrete examples could work (e.g. an I/O operation is completed).

> In some situations, it is possible that the conditions are satisfied at the point of the await, and the execution can be resumed immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some situations, it is possible that the conditions are already satisfied at the point of the await and the execution can be resumed immediately.
```

One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied.

> In some situations, it is possible that the conditions are already satisfied at the point of the await and the execution can be resumed immediately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In some situations, it is possible that the conditions are already satisfied at the point of the `co_await` and the execution can be resumed immediately.
```
C++ does not have `await` operator AFAIK, and "await" is not an english noun.

Reviewer 3: Done

The {cpp} standard provides an efficient method to conditionally suspend the coroutine.

> Firstly, the result of `await_ready` is used to determine whether a coroutine should be suspended. Returning `true` from this function, when conditions are satisfied,

Reviewer 2: > conditions are satisfied

What conditions?

Reviewer 3: Changed to clarify a bit, conditions you are waiting for with `co_await`, you can wait for anything.

> Firstly, the result of `await_ready` is used to determine whether a coroutine should be suspended. Returning `true` from this function, when conditions are satisfied,

Reviewer 2: this "Firstly" implies subsequent adverbs like "secondly", or "subsequently", and I didn't find any, which left me with the feeling that something is missing.
Can it be dropped?
I.e.:
```suggestion
The result of `await_ready` is used to determine whether a coroutine should be suspended. Returning `true` from this function, when conditions are satisfied,
```

avoids the cost of the coroutine suspension.
Furthermore, the `bool`-returning version of `await_suspend` allows immediate resumption of the current coroutine in the case when `false` is returned
(returning `true` indicates that the coroutine should remain suspended).

> Compared to symmetric transfer, this method provides better optimization opportunities, as the continuation code is known to the compiler - i.e.

Reviewer 2: Can you add a link to the definition of "symmetric transfer"?
For a coroutine-virgin like me, it is not an obvious term.

Reviewer 3: We discussed this on standup, and we are not adding link to external links to blog, other web-sites, only other guidlines and standard.

> the code of the current coroutine is invoked, while the returned handle could point to an arbitral coroutine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the code of the current coroutine is invoked, while the returned handle could point to an arbitrary coroutine.
```

Reviewer 2: "returned handle" - returned by what or from where?

Reviewer 3: Removed returned entirelly. This refers to await_suspend returning a handle, i.e. symmetric coroutine transfer.

This rule raises an issue on `await_suspend` that can benefit from using conditional suspension.

== Noncompliant Code Example

----
struct WaitForAwaiter {
  Event& event;
  /* .... */
  void await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) { // Noncompliant
    if (bool ready = event.register_callback(current)) {

>       return current;

Reviewer 2: Is it valid to return a `std::coroutine_handle<>` for a function with return type `void`?

Reviewer 3: Not, tope.

Reviewer 2: Did you mean to write "Not, typo"? Did you fix the typo in that case? Did you mean something else?

Reviewer 3: This was a typo in return type.

    } else {
      return std::noop_coroutine();
    }
  }
}

struct ReadBytesAwaiter {
  Socket& socket;
  std::size_t count;
  std::span<std::byte> buffer;
  std::error_code error;
  /* .... */
  void await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) { // Noncompliant
    auto callback = [&error_store=error, current](std::error_code ec) { 
      error_store = ec;
      current.resume();
    };
     
    auto ec = socket.async_read(buffer, count, callback);
    if (!ec) {

>       error = ec;

Reviewer 2: Am I right that `ec` equals 0 here? If so, what is the point of this assignment? can it be replaced with `error = 0`?

Reviewer 3: This should be `if (ec)` fixed.

Reviewer 2: You've fixed the compliant example, but not this one.

> One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied.
> In some situations, it is possible that the expected result is already available at the point of 
> the `co_await`/`co_yield` expression and the execution can be resumed immediately.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied.
In some situations, the expected result may be already available at the point of the `co_await`/`co_yield` expression, and the execution can be resumed immediately.
```

> One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied.
> In some situations, it is possible that the expected result is already available at the point of 
> the `co_await`/`co_yield` expression and the execution can be resumed immediately.
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied.
In some situations, the expected result may be already available at the point of the `co_await`/`co_yield` expression, and the execution can be resumed immediately.

```

> The {cpp} standard provides an efficient method to conditionally suspend the coroutine.
> The result of `await_ready` is used to determine whether a coroutine should be suspended. 
> Returning `true` from this function avoids the cost of the coroutine suspension, if it not needed (e.g. result is already available).
> Furthermore, the `bool`-returning version of `await_suspend` allows immediate resumption of the current coroutine in the case when `false` is returned
> (returning `true` indicates that the coroutine should remain suspended).
> Compared to symmetric transfer, this method provides better optimization opportunities, as the continuation code is known to the compiler - i.e.
> the code of the current coroutine is invoked, while handle could point to an arbitrary coroutine.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The {cpp} standard provides an efficient method to suspend the coroutine conditionally.
The result of `await_ready` is used to determine whether a coroutine should be suspended. 
Returning `true` from this function avoids the cost of the coroutine suspension if it is not needed (e.g., the result is already available).
Furthermore, the `bool`-returning version of `await_suspend` allows immediate resumption of the current coroutine in the case when `false` is returned.
(returning `true` indicates that the coroutine should remain suspended).
Compared to symmetric transfer, this method provides better optimization opportunities, as the continuation code is known to the compiler - i.e.
The code of the current coroutine is invoked, while the handle could point to an arbitrary coroutine.
```

> This rule raises an issue on `await_suspend` method that will benefit from use conditional suspension mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule raises an issue on `await_suspend` that can benefit from using the conditional suspension mechanism.
```
or maybe slightly shorter:
```suggestion
This rule raises an issue on `await_suspend` that can benefit from using conditional suspension.
```

  std::error_code error;
  /* .... */
  void await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) { // Noncompliant
    auto callback = [&error_store=error, current](std::error_code ec) { 
      error_store = ec;
      current.resume();
    };
     
    auto ec = socket.async_read(buffer, count, callback);
    if (!ec) {
      error = ec;
      current.resume();
    }
  }
}
----

== Compliant Solution

----
struct WaitForAwaiter {
  Event& event;
  /* .... */
  bool await_ready() const {
    return event.is_ready();
  }
  bool await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) {
    return !event.register_callback(current));
  }
}

struct ReadBytesAwaiter {
  Socket& socket;
  std::size_t count;
  std::span<std::byte> buffer;
  std::error_code error;
  /* .... */

  bool await_ready() const {
    return false; // no way to query before suspension
  }
  std::coroutine_handle<void> await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) {
    auto callback = [&error_store=error, current](std::error_code ec) { 
      error_store = ec;
      current.resume();
    };
     
    auto ec = socket.async_read(buffer, count, callback);
    if (ec) {
      error = ec;
      return false;
    }
   

>     return true;

Reviewer 2: Should it be `return current`? Or should the return value of `await_suspend` be boolean?
I propose to check that the examples compile and work, to avoid potential compilation errors that will confuse the users that try to understand them.

Reviewer 3: Good idea, followed it.

  }
}
----

== See

> S6365 - transfering execution to any suspended coroutine

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
S6365 - transferring execution to any suspended coroutine
```

One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied (e.g. value is produced, flag/event is triggered).
In some situations, the expected result may be already available at the point of the `co_await`/`co_yield` expression, and the execution can be resumed immediately.

The {cpp} standard provides an efficient method to suspend the coroutine conditionally.
The result of `await_ready` is used to determine whether a coroutine should be suspended. 

> Returning `true` from this function avoids the cost of the coroutine suspension if it is not needed (e.g., the result is already available).

Reviewer 2: which coroutine?
```suggestion
Returning `true` from this function avoids the cost of the suspension of current coroutine if it is not needed (e.g., the result is already available).
```
or
```suggestion
Returning `true` from this function avoids the cost of the suspension of the invoked coroutine if it is not needed (e.g., the result is already available).
```

Reviewer 3: You cannot suspend coroutine other than current, so I do not think that needs explanation,

> Furthermore, the `bool`-returning version of `await_suspend` allows immediate resumption of the current coroutine in the case when `false` is returned.
> (returning `true` indicates that the coroutine should remain suspended).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the `bool`-returning version of `await_suspend` allows immediate resumption of the current coroutine in the case when `false` is returned
(returning `true` indicates that the coroutine should remain suspended).
```

Reviewer 3: This was just suggested by @abbas-sabra-sonarsource  I will let him decide if this should be changed.

> Compared to symmetric transfer, this method provides better optimization opportunities, as the continuation code is known to the compiler - i.e.
> The code of the current coroutine is invoked, while the handle could point to an arbitrary coroutine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Compared to symmetric transfer, this method provides better optimization opportunities, as the continuation code is known to the compiler - i.e.,
it is the code of the current coroutine, while in symmetric transfer the handle could point to an arbitrary coroutine.
```
To fix the grammar ("The" cannot stand in the middle of a sentence except for titles), and try to connect the claim and its justification more.

Reviewer 3: This was just suggested by @abbas-sabra-sonarsource  I will let him decide if this should be changed.

One of the use cases for the coroutines is suspending execution until certain conditions are satisfied.
In some situations, it is possible that the conditions are already satisfied at the point of the await and the execution can be resumed immediately.

> {cpp}++ standard provides an efficient method to conditionally suspend the coroutine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {cpp} standard provides an efficient method to conditionally suspend the coroutine.
```

> Firstly, the result of `await_ready` is used is coroutine should be suspended. Returning a `true` value from this function, when conditions are satisfied,
> void the cost of coroutine suspension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, the result of `await_ready` is used to determine whether a coroutine should be suspended. Returning `true` from this function, when conditions are satisfied,
voids the cost of the coroutine suspension.
```

> Furthermore, there is `bool` returning version of `await_suspend`, allows immediate resumption of current coroutine in the case when `false` is returned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the `bool`-returning version of `await_suspend` allows immediate resumption of the current coroutine in the case when `false` is returned
```

> (returning `true` indicates that coroutine should remain suspended).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(returning `true` indicates that the coroutine should remain suspended).
```

Compared to symmetric transfer, this method provides better optimization opportunities, as the continuation code is known to the compiler - i.e.

> code of current coroutine is invoked, while returned handle could point to arbitral coroutine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the code of the current coroutine is invoked, while the returned handle could point to an arbitral coroutine.
```

This rule raises an issue on `await_suspend` method that will benefit from use conditional suspension mechanism.

> == Noncompliant Code Example

Reviewer: In the examples below you use `h` where I think you meant `current`.

  void await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) { // Noncompliant

>     auto callback = [&error](std::error_code ec) { 

Reviewer: The capture is wrong.

  Event& event;
  /* .... */
  bool await_ready() const {
    return event.is_ready();
  }
  bool await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) {
    return !event.register_callback(current));
  }
}

struct ReadBytesAwaiter {
  Socket& socket;
  std::size_t count;
  std::span<std::byte> buffer;
  std::error_code error;
  /* .... */

  bool await_ready() const {
    return false; // no way to query before suspension
  }

>   void await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) { // Noncompliant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  void await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) {
```

  bool await_ready() const {
    return false; // no way to query before suspension
  }
  void await_suspend(std::coroutine_handle<> current) {

>     auto callback = [&error](std::error_code ec) { 

Reviewer: ditto.
